By Mzamo Majola  There’s a difference between being in office and being in power. Right now in South Africa our so-called ‘Black government’ is in office, but they’re not ‘in power’. Our so-called ‘black government’ has no control over anything, the white people do. They let us make fools of ourselves by making us think that in 1994 we had claimed victory and freedom. They gave us political ‘power’ knowing fully well that greed would rise and we would end up killing and betraying each other for it, just like we always do. The funny thing is that even though we have that political ‘power’, we don’t have enough money to fund ourselves, therefore we are forced to go back to white people and ask them to fund our political parties – making blacks loose sole ownership of that ‘political power’. You can have a house plan, but if you don’t have land, bricks and building material and I come and offer to give you those, that would also make me the owner of that house, and I would have full control of that house because if it wasn’t for my money and land you wouldn’t have built that house at all. That’s what happens with our political parties. The leaders that we see on the forefront are controlled. They take orders from the master that funds their political campaigns, etc. Now that means that the little political ‘power’ that we hold, we share it with white people.  Now back to the ‘Freedom & Power’ topic. Ignorant and brainwashed people often say, “but we are free and we live in a democratic country now, we occupy the Union Buildings and the National Assembly, we make the rules, so what?”  First of all, the rules made in Parliament are made by parliamentarians who are like microphones and speakers, their function is to transmit what has been said and decided by the Master. Parliament is just a talking house, and our majority as black people in the house doesn’t grant us bragging rights of being in power. The other day whilst reading The Green Book by Muammar Gaddafi I learnt that parliaments are a misrepresentation of the people, and parliamentary systems are a false solution to the problem of democracy. A parliament is originally founded to represent the people, but this in itself is undemocratic as democracy means the authority of the people and not authority acting on their behalf. The mere existence of the parliament means the absence of the people. True democracy exists only through the direct participation of the people, and not through the activity of their representatives.  The fact that we live in a ‘democratic’ South Africa, as we’ve been made to believe, doesn’t necessarily mean that those people we see making noise in parliament are “representing the people of South Africa”, as they usually say.  To conclude, we may hold some political power, in terms of parliamentary representation and voting rights, but that’s all. We have nothing else to our name.  We don’t own the land, we don’t own our mineral resources, nor do we have economic power on whose stability depends everybody’s livelihood, including the lives of our politicians who boast to have the political power. We don’t own anything, the land and all the minerals on it are owned and controlled by people who don’t even live here in South Africa for heaven sake! The sea and all the fish in it is not fully controlled by us. What is it that we as black people have in our names? Nothing!  That is why it is essential for us to rid ourselves off whiteness, unite and reclaim full ownership of our resources and power that was forcefully taken away from us.  We were made to believe that we are free, but what is freedom without land? The people whom are believed to be representing us in parliament are not saying anything about giving back the land to the people, therefore we need to boycott all those political parties that are not putting our special need for land at the forefront of their discourse. Our special need is LAND … UMHLABA!!  Our ‘Power’ relies on land ownership. We need to get back the land, so that we will regain the power.  #Izwelethu!