By Andile Mngxitama The hastily put together so-called state capture report by the former Public Protector is a mess of a document with illogical lapses, glaring typos and incomplete  sentences. But the most shocking aspect of the report is that it is based on some obvious lies which Advocate Madonsela chooses to believe in her somewhat desperate quest to find the elusive smoking gun of state capture by the Guptas. In the coming days Black Opinion shall provide analysis of each troubling aspect of the report. Here we focus only on that piece of “evidence” from the star witness, Deputy Minister Mcebisi Jonas – yes, he who claims that some R600 million was offered to him in exchange for accepting the job of Minister of Finance by the Gupta family. Of course the man accused of stealing the funeral funds of the late Nelson Mandela refused the R600 million. Someone should ask Jonas, when did he stop being corrupt? Jonas told Madonsela that after he refused the R600 million he asked Duduzane Zuma and Fana Hlongwane to take him to the airport. He told Mandonsela that he was very angry at the two. According to Mandonsela, “(o)n the way to the airport, Mr Jonas apparently asked both Mr D. Zuma and Mr Hlongwane to explain why he was not informed that he would be meeting with members of the Gupta family.” (Page 94: y). This member of the Gupta family is identified by Jonas as Ajay Gupta. Either the story told by Jonas is a blatant lie or Duduzane Zuma is a superman. It boggles the mind as to why Advocate Madonsela bought such cheap lies.  We are left to conclude that Madonsela is either incompetent or doesn’t care to evaluate evidence that takes her away from nailing the Guptas. Check how Madonsela allowed Jonas to lie: On page 103 at paragraph (i) the report states that “(t)he telephone records show that Mr D. Zuma was at Saxonworld on 23 October 2016 from 14:00 to17:10”. On the same page at paragraph “j” the report states that “(t)he records show that Mr Hlongwane was also at Saxonwold on 23 October 2016 from 14:02 PM to 15:19 PM”. Then on page 104 at paragraph (k) the report says that “(t)he telephone records show that Mr Jonas was at the airport at 16:43:33 PM on the same date”. Look at the telephonically recorded locations and the times. Duduzane Zuma, who was according to Jonas driving him to the airport, is located at two places at the same time –  at Saxonwold up to 17:10, but also supposedly dropping off Jonas at the airport at around16:43.  Who is lying here? The telephone records, Jonas or  Mandonsela? An interestingly omitted piece of corroborating evidence is that there is no telephone recordings of Ajay Gupta at Saxonwold at the same time that the three are supposed to be at the area with him. Ajay says in his statement to Madonsela that he has never met Jonas. Despite these glaring inconsistencies Madonsela says she believes the account of Jonas, the man who says he drove to the airport with a man who was all the time at Saxonwold. We must wonder why Madonsela did not accept Ajay’s version as being more plausible, given the absence of telephone records locating him at Saxonwold at that time? These inconsistencies dig a big hole on the claims of Mcebisi Jonas. He seems to be lying as part of a concerted attempt to create a particular picture. Jonas manufactured meetings and offers which never happened. He lied to assist create perceptions of state capture by the Guptas so as to help Johann Rupert in his quest to get rid of an irritating competition from upstarts from India. There is no other explanation for Jonas’s lies. Advocate Madonsela was only too happy to accept Jonas’s fiction because it was in sync with the overall regime change programme for which she has allegedly being rewarded with a post by Johann Rupert at the University of Stellenbosch. Thuli lets Jonas lie in her crusade to crush the Guptas but in the process this only served to unwittingly expose her real agenda.  The bigger question these lies pose is, what else in the report is manufactured evidence? The state capture report is captured! Andile Mngxitama is the National Convener of Black First Land First