Media Statement: It has transpired that a handful of politicians and businessmen in the pocket of white monopoly capital, under the leadership of Johann Rupert, have resolved to stage a coup. This is not surprising at all.  Black First Land First (BLF) has been warning the nation about the anti-BRICS regime change scheme. There are now reports that senior ANC leaders are plotting with opposition parties to overthrow President Jacob Zuma and replace him initially with Mmusi Maimane and then later with Cyril Ramaphosa. Senior members of the ruling party like Jackson Mthembu, Mathole Motshekga, Gwede Mantashe and Pravin Gordhan have already shown their hands. They are for the coup!  We call on South Africans to defend their President and not allow a handful of men bought by white capitalists to determine the future of the country. Africa has seen too many coups and all of them have ended badly for the people. If Johann Rupert and his henchmen want to be President let them form political parties and run for elections. They must not be given power through the backdoor!  White settler capital has been given a lot of confidence by the Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) coalition with the Democratic Alliance (DA) which has given power to whites in the metro cities. They have tasted blood and now think they can go for the ultimate prize.  BLF has been clear that it shall resist any white led programme for the removal of President Zuma. BLF reiterate its call of “Hands off President Zuma – Economic Liberation Now”!  We call on the nation to defend the President against the coup planned through parliamentary processes. If politicians want to change the President let them put it to the people through a referendum. Let the people decide; not agents of Johann Rupert.  At the same time, we call President Zuma to do the right thing for the nation without any further delay:  1. Give us our land back NOW!  2. Declare free education NOW! Drop all charges against student leaders now!  3. Declare a minimum wage of R12 500 NOW!  4. Force Lonmin to pay reparations for the Marikana massacre NOW.  5. Break down the monopolies NOW!  6. Indigenisation of the economy NOW!  These are minimum demands to take the country forward. No more talks. The time to act is NOW!  Issued by: Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@­gmail.com  Andile Mngxitama,
National Convener
Cell: +27 82 678 3200
Mail: newfranktalk1@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
Deputy National Convenor
Cell: +27 79 486 9087
Mail: zanelelwana@gmail.co­m 