By BO Staff Writer In the recently released ‘State Capture’ report, the former Public Protector, Thuli Madonsela, recommends a Judicial Commission of Inquiry. On 31 March 2016 BLF wrote to the Presidency and called for a Judicial Commission of Inquiry. Read the movement’s full letter below: The Presidency
President Jacob Zuma
Union Buildings
Government Avenue
Pretoria 31 March 2016 Dear President Zuma BLF CALLS FOR A JUDICIAL COMMISSION OF INQUIRY ON SA “STATE CAPTURE” BY WHITE CAPITAL The President is hereby called upon to institute a Judicial Commission of Inquiry into SA “state capture” by white capital. To this end the involvement of the following people both personally and in their stated capacities needs thorough inquiry: 1. SA Businessman and Chairman of Richemont , Johann Rupert
2. Barclays Africa Group Chief Executive Officer, Maria Ramos;
3. Goldman Sachs’ South Africa head Colin Coleman;
4. Investec Bank’s global CEO, Stephen Koseff;
5. Imperial Holdings’ CEO, Mark Lamberti;
6. Sanlam CEO, Ian Kirk;
7. Business Leadership South Africa chairperson, Bobby Godsell;
8. Toyota Europe CEO, Johan van Zyl
9. First Rand CEO, Johan Burger
(Hereinafter referred to as Johann Rupert and eight others) The under-mentioned areas of inquiry require the President’s attention. The involvement of Johann Rupert and eight others in respect of: 1. The subversion of the Constitution as well as all the Arms of State including the Legislature in terms of which the President is accountable to – through the people. 2. Illegal usurpation of the constitutional and other legal powers of the President. 3. The firing of Des van Rooyen and the hiring of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Finance. 4. The details (including the agenda, input, discussions, decisions, instructions and mandates) of the meeting called by Johann Rupert held on 10 December 2015 between Johann Rupert and certain business barons (including bankers) on the one hand with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa on the other hand. 5. The details (including the agenda, input, discussions, decisions, instructions and mandates) of the meeting held on 13 December 2015 (coordinated by Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and ANC Secretary General Gwede Mantashe) between the white business delegation on the one hand with the ANC delegation on the other hand. 6. The details of the meeting held on 13 December 2015 between two ANC representatives from the earlier meeting the same day, being Zwele Mkhize and Jeff Radebe and President Zuma after which DesVan Rooyen was removed from the post of Finance Minister and Pravin Gordhan’s appointment as Finance Minister was announced. 7. The firing of Des van Rooyen from the post of Finance Minister and the hiring of Pravin Gordhan in the same post. In support of the above call for a Judicial Commission of Inquiry, BLF submits a statement by its National Convener, Andile Mngxitama, which is attached to this cover page. The Office of the President is respectfully requested to respond to this call as a matter of top priority. Yours in the Struggle BLF NATIONAL CONVENER
ANDILE MNGXITAMA