By Andile Mngxitama Up until now the Student Representative Council (SRC) has been a school to teach corruption and compromise. Those elected into the SRC promptly assume the posture and mannerisms of a politician. This has to be changed. The SRC has to be a weapon of the students against ignorance, racism, patriarchy, homophobia, tribalism, colonialism, neo-colonialism, and against the oppression, exploitation and discrimination of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex, Asexual and gender non-conforming (LGBTQIA+) communities. These are all offshoots of, and at the same time the building blocks of, white supremacy. The SRC must become the school of revolution. To make a revolution there must be revolutionary theory. Otherwise, the struggle gets used for personal vendettas and self enrichment of the leaders who use the desperate situation of the poor to entrench themselves into the system. Black First Land First – Student Movement (BLF-SM) stands on clear ideological grounds based on the Black Consciousness of Steve Biko and the Pan Afrikanism of Robert Sobukwe. This clarity centres blackness. That’s why we are black before we are any other identity and hence the saying, “we are blacks before we are students”.  If black people are not ok, students can’t be ok. Black Consciousness teaches us the truth that “there can be no decolonized university in a colonised society”. The struggle for liberation is total and the return of land is foundational to our liberation. What do we do to stop the self interest of elected representatives? We look at Thomas Sankara – he who used power to serve the people instead of himself and the political elite. The BLF-SM black agenda for students and the Thomas Sankara Oath are informed by Sankarist leadership values which put students first. BLF-SM is tasked to transform how power is exercised. It will fight for an SRC that pushes a Sankarist model. This is how you make the SRC a school of revolution that puts students first! Decolonise society to decolonise UKZN!  Vote BLF-SM, its the right thing to do! Andile Mngxitama is the Black First Land First National Convener 