By BO Editorial CollectiveBlack Opinion is tired of the lies told by the white media.The misinformation campaign is now open and brazen. Last Sunday both the City Press and the Sunday Times published stories they both know to be false. The City Press disregarded all evidence put before it and went ahead and published falsehoods. Sunday Times did the same in relying only on &#8220;unnamed&#8221; sources.Here are some facts suppressed by the media via this massive media capture in service of white capital:BO Editorial Collective challenges the City Press and Sunday Times to a live debate on these questions so as to expose their lies. Because the media is feeding the public lies, BO is publishing, amongst others, the full statements from Eskom. Read and decide for yourself:Read the first Eskom statement here:Media Statement &#8211; Eskom s tactical sourcing of coal saves billions of rands and avoids load shedding Read the second Eskom statement below:Eskom refutes allegations of blindsiding Exxaro in the Arnot coal contractSunday, 12 June 2016: Despite a sensationalist headline titled How Eskom bailed out the Guptas , the City Press newspaper offers no evidence to support its wild allegations. In a desperate effort to substantiate its claims, the newspaper alleges that Eskom had blindsided Exxaro Resources by informing them that their contract to supply coal to Arnot power station would not be renewed. The newspaper further states that Eskom s decision to delay the awarding of the long-term contract until it has satisfied itself that all bidders met all the conditions stipulated in the tender was evidence that Eskom is helping to bail out Tegeta s new mine. Eskom would like to emphasise that all its contracting relationships are concluded on sound commercial principles and considerations. In addition, all the Tegeta coal contracts with Eskom have been extensively audited by various agencies, including National Treasury.As far as the Arnot coal supply contract is concerned, the City Press has deliberately downplayed the fact that Exxaro had a 40-year contract with Eskom for the supply coal to the Arnot power station. The contract was not cancelled as has been insinuated, it actually expired at the end of December last year. In August last year Eskom issued a request for proposals (RFP), and bids from all interested parties were received before the closing date of October 2015. The cost of coal at expiry was R1 132/ton. The tonnages supplied under the contract were below contractual volumes necessitating Eskom to supplement the supply with other contracts to mitigate security of supply which was a continuous challenge.Exxaro has previously been quoted in media reports as saying that it has not submitted its bid, and so did Tegeta. Any suggestions that Eskom had blindsided Exxaro are baseless, malicious and misleading.The reported coal diversions to Arnot power station from the Optimum coal mine actually refer to the export grade coal that is not suitable for Hendrina power station. Optimum Coal Mine produces coal for both domestic and export markets. Because of the low commodity demand, Tegeta is selling some of that coal to Arnot. There s nothing untoward about it.The Optimum-Hendrina product is a blend of Run of Mine and a washed product and the base price for this product is R150/ton (base price is the coal price at inception of the period).The second product, Optimum-Arnot, is an export product, higher quality and a washed product). The base price for this product is R470/ton.Whilst the evaluation of the long-term contract are still underway, and expected to be completed in September this year, Eskom has in the interim contracted seven suppliers to deliver coal to Arnot until September. Although the media has generally focused on one supplier, namely Tegeta, Eskom has named the other six suppliers as well, and they are: South32 (BECSA), Exxaro, Glencore, Keaton Mining (Pty) Ltd, Hlagisa Mining, and Umsimbithi Mining.In April, four of the seven suppliers, namely Exxaro, Hlagisa, Umsimbithi and Tegeta remained supplying Arnot while the balance of the suppliers indicated were redirected to supply their original designated power stations.This information was provided to the City Press, with details of how much coal each of these companies had supplied to the Arnot power station for the month of April. City Press chose not to use this information because it would stand in the way of their scoop. It is for this reason that we re considering taking the matter to the Press Ombudsman for adjudication.Eskom is not diverting coal from Hendrina to Arnot. The annual contract is 5.5mt which is then phased over the twelve months from January to December. Coal deliveries early in the year were reduced by Eskom due to a lower burn requirement at Hendrina power station, and the need to reclaim coal from the live stockpiles. The average monthly supply is thus 458kt. The plan for June is 425kt which is 33kt lower than the contract volume and relate to the planned burn requirement at Hendrina of 425kt.Hendrina coal stockpiles are currently 40 days, which is already higher that the target of 35 days. The commitment from Optimum, going forward is to meet the Hendrina burn requirements.EDITORS NOTES ON COAL PREPAYMENTS COAL QUALITIES AN INDUSTRY-WIDE ISSUE ESKOM S RESPONSE TO COAL SUPPLY CHALLENGES ENDS 