By Xola Skosana A socialist Azania must be born from the ashes of a racist, white supremacist country over which the ANC has presided for 22 years. Just as Mama Winnie predicted that “together hand-in-hand, with our boxes of matches and our necklaces, we shall liberate this country”. However, Thomas Sankara warned that a “soldier without an ideology is a potential criminal”. Criminals are those with match boxes in their hands but lack ideology in their heads.  “Liberating” this country is not the same as sprinkling white spaces of privilege with a few blacks, but the total overthrow of white power, the end to capitalism and the birth of a socialist Azania. Let it be this dream that drives and consumes those with match boxes in their hands and not a mere candidate list of whose turn it should be to get on the looting spree or the gravy train. We urge the people of Tshwane to take this fight and this fire to spaces of privilege and to do it for the right reasons. Let not one black soul be subjected to our moral rage unless she or he has proven beyond doubt to be a “non-white”.  Even the “non white”, we must be sure she/he has been given the right political education and a chance to make amends. Only then shall we be justified in our action. Therefore turn every street committee meeting, every church service, every funeral and every wedding into a political school. Wherever Blacks meet, in the trains and in the taxi ranks, at the university cafeteria or in public toilets, each one must teach one about Sobukwe and Biko and the imminent return of a socialist Azania. Match boxes rightfully belong to those who know that the land, the water underneath and all the minerals belong to the people! The sea and the fish belong to the people! Match boxes rightfully belong to those fighting to free APLA political prisoners. Match boxes rightfully belong to those living below the poverty line in the farms. Match boxes rightfully belong to the miners in Marikana. Match boxes rightfully belong to the students who are forced to buy their future through a commodified education system. Match boxes rightfully belong to the landless masses of our people!