Featured Image: Kagiso Rabada celebrates dismissing Australia’s Nathan Coulter-Nile during a One-day International (ODI) cricket match between South Africa and Australia in the Tri-Nation Series in Georgetown, Guyana on June 7, 2016. Photo: Andrew Caballero-Reynolds/AFP By Telford Vice Black Opinion republishes this Times Live articles about the Proteas fielding eight players of colour for the first time. This displaces the racist myth that if Black players are drafted into South African sports teams, then the playing standard will drop.   Before their triseries match against Australia in providence on Tuesday, SA had gone 95 one-day internationals without picking three specialist spinners. Never before‚ in 1045 matches across all formats against all opponents‚ had they fielded eight players of colour. Only once before have SA put fewer than their total of 189/9 on the board against Australia in an ODI – and still found a way to win. Which of those facts grabs your attention depends on which prism you choose to look at SA cricket. Those spinners – Imran Tahir‚ Aaron Phangiso and Tabraiz Shamsi – took five wickets between them. But it was Kagiso Rabada and Wayne Parnell who did the winning with the new ball. They claimed 3/13 and 2/23. And‚ yes‚ they are both players of colour. As‚ in fact‚ was the entire SA attack. Another player of colour‚ the much maligned Farhaan Behardien‚ came to the crease at the end of the 25th over with his team teetering on 104/5. Twenty balls later he saw them slip to 112/6. What did Behardien do about that? He hung tough for 62‚ finding his sturdiest support in stands of 37 and 39 with Phangiso and Rabada. It was a superb rearguard effort but 190 seemed a tiny target to present to the mighty Australians. Except that it wasn’t‚ thanks to Rabada and Parnell setting the tone by bowling with sustained‚ disciplined aggression. Parnell trapped the dangerous David Warner in front with the 10th ball of the innings‚ and when the Aussies blinked they were 90/8 in the 23rd over. Aaron Finch gritted out a Behardienesque 72 and there was 30 from Nathan Lyon and Josh Hazlewood‚ Nos. 10 and 11. No-one else reached double figures. All told‚ there were only 142 runs in the book when Phangiso had Lyon leg before to end the match. Somehow‚ SA had won by 47 runs. First published on the Times Live website. No related posts.