By BO Staff Writer In the beginning the EFF described its seven cardinal pillars as “non negotiable”, but its leadership has over time amended these founding pillars to fall in line with the interests of white capital. Principally, the EFF has abandoned the cardinal pillar on land and has certainly liquidated the additional pillar on the “Thomas Sankara Oath”. The Thomas Sankara Oath has now been removed completely from the Founding Manifesto of the EFF. The Sankara Oath pillar was added into the the EFF manifesto as a condition by the September National Imbizo (SNI) led by amongst others Andile Mngxitama. It is clear that the expulsion of Mngxitama and his group from the EFF has opened the door to the watering down of radical policies of the original EFF. Below are some of the changes made to the Basic Foundational Principles as contained in the Founding Manifesto of the EFF: Cardinal Pillar 1 1. Expropriation of South Africa’s land without compensation for equal redistribution (pre 15 December 2014 NPA version).
a) Expropriation of South Africa’s land without compensation for equal redistribution in use. (post 15 December 2014 NPA version).  The words “in use” has been added to the latter version. This suggests that only land that is unproductive and not in use will be expropriated . This was further explained by Julius Malema to the white captains of agriculture in April 2015 at a meeting in Stellenbosch when he said that the EFF would only expropriate unproductive land not in use by whites and again in 2016 at the EFF LGE Manifesto Rally when he said that EFF will give whites 20% of the land which effectively amounts to all the productive land in SA. By selling out the land principle the EFF has destroyed the urgency of resolving the land question. This is not only contrary what the Founding Manifesto originally required being that all land shall be expropriated, it is also not in line with EFF’s original land policy (now abandoned) which correctly suggested that the land question is based on the anti colonial logic that all land in SA is stolen property.  Cardinal Pillar 7 7. Open, accountable government and society without fear of victimisation by the State Defence, Police and other Agencies (pre 15 December 2014 NPA version).  g. Open, accountable, corrupt-free government and society without fear of victimisation by state agencies. (post 15 December 2014 NPA version).  Note how victimization by the “Defence, Police and other Agencies” has been removed from the post 15 December 2014 NPA version. This suggests that the EFF is not against anti black police, military and other forms of violence such as that meted out by private security companies in service of white capital.  Furthermore in the Founding Manifesto adopted on 27 July 2013 section 107 read: “The Sankara Oath
107.
As part of holding public representatives accountable, they shall be made to commit and sign the Thomas Sankara Oath, which commits them to using public facilities and providing quality service for all.”  In the post 15 December 2014 NPA version the above section 107 has been removed. This clearly suggests an abandonment by the EFF of the Sankarist people-first approach and an adoption of an anti black pro capitalist imperialist agenda.