By Andile Mngxitama The 2016 Local Government Elections (LGE) have put the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in a vantage position to set a national agenda in South Africa. This position is unique and rare. The EFF can choose to use it to advance the revolution or to strengthen the hand of white supremacy. Black First Land First (BLF) calls on the EFF to break ranks with the imperialist agenda and choose the path of revolutionary progress by abandoning any talk of a coalition with the racist party of white monopoly capital, the Democratic Alliance (DA) of Helen Zille. A coalition with the DA shall only benefit the same people who have benefited from stealing our land. There is no denying that the ruling party, the African National Congress (ANC), has failed to use its power to advance black liberation. In this window of opportunity given by history to advance the course of black liberation, through the strategic use of the ballot, we need visionary leadership which is able to tower above our immediate feelings, differences and concerns. Mr Malema, you are being called upon to step forward and change the course of history. You can choose to be consumed by petty hatred of Jacob Zuma or you can choose to be inspired by a revolutionary vision and turn the current impasse into a breakthrough for our long suffering people. At this hour the ANC needs what the EFF can give and in turn the ANC has what can be used by the EFF to end the suffering of our people. The percentage of the vote the EFF has can save the major metropolitan cities from falling into the hands of the racist anti-black DA. The ANC needs nothing more than that possibility. Only EFF can save us from the white rule of DA in these metros. The ANC knows this, as all of us do. On the other hand the ANC, because it is the ruling party which has the legislative majority, has what the EFF can use to advance the revolution. Only the ANC has the power to change national policy to end white racism and to return our land. The ANC needs the votes you have and the revolution needs the authority the ANC has but has been too timid to use. Now history has provided the condition to force the hand of the ANC to do the right thing. Lenin, the great Russian revolutionary of the last century, teaches us that at times history needs a little push. It can be done, for our people and our progeny. The ANC is on the ropes. No its not Mohammed Ali’s “rope-a-dope”, its their back against the wall. There is no need for a sadistic rubbing it on their faces. Let’s humiliate the history of humiliation that has put our people in perpetual misery. Mr Malema we call on you to make an offer the ANC cannot refuse. Tell them they can keep the metros on the following conditions: 1. Land expropriation without compensation
2. Nationalisation of mines and banks
3. Free education for all
4. Living wages and a basic income grant
5. Reparations for Marikana. Tell them that the first condition is non negotiable. You may add an implementation plan which may include strategic placement of your trusted people in key positions. Also present the ANC with a time table of implementation with clear objectives. This is how the country can be rescued from the blubbering incompetence and cowardice of the ANC on the one hand and on the other hand the arrogance of white supremacy of the DA. EFF stands to lose nothing for making these demands. If the ANC rejects this revolutionary offer to rescue our people then it’s the biggest loser and your party can only grow in stature in the eyes of our people. Now is the time to focus on what is fundamental. To abandon any commitment with imperialism and choose the path of revolutionary leadership. History has thrown us a rope. Lets grab it with both hands and end the long nightmare of 350 years of bondage by a foreign occupying force. The choice here is between maintaining the racist status quo by going with the DA into a coalition of the bitter or to force the hand of the ANC and return our land and dignity. These choices are clear. We wait for you to make the correct turn and end the ongoing humiliation of the black majority. We implore you to sit down with the gang from Luthuli House. You have nothing to lose but to gain a whole new world for all of us. You can choose this path or you can choose the path of joining hands with our enemies and continue our oppression. Yours sincerely Andile Mngxitama
National Convenor
Black First Land First (BLF)