By BO Staff Writer The 26 members of Black First Land First (BLF) who were arrested on Mandela Day are appearing in Kgosi Mampuru Court today. The 26 are out on bail. The BLF 26 were arrested at the office of the public protector in Brooklyn, Tshwane. BLF has been arguing that the public protector has been dragging her feet on investigating the R26 billion stolen from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) by white capital. The matter was reported to her office in 2011 but nothing had been done until BLF raised the matter. The second concern that took BLF to her office is the complaint of state capture by white capital which has not been followed on. Only after the BLF26 had spent 8 nights in jail did the public protector’s office respond to our request for a meeting. BLF commends the work of the deputy public protector who has treated us with courtesy and respect when we met him last month. It is also encouraging to report that a follow-up meeting has been called with BLF on 7 September to discuss the BLF’s complaint of state capture by white capital. BLF shall not rest until white capital pays back the money. Currently over 1000 unemployed youth in Soweto have signed up to support the campaign to get back the R26 billion stolen by white capital. BLF is clear that the struggle for liberation of Black people in South Africa is a struggle against white settler capital. We note how the minister of finance Mr Pravin Gordhan was the preferred candidate of the same white capital that have stolen from the SARB which is under his control. The question is, did they insist the ANC appoint him so that he can protect them? BLF notes that Treasury has ignored all our emails on white state capture and corruption. This is not too surprising if we factor in the fact that Gordhan has shares in these very same companies. The fight for R26 billion is a battle to protect the fiscus against looting by white businesses. Unfortunately, both Gordhan and advocate Thuli Madonsela are not interested in pursuing white corruption. R26 billion shall be paid back. We note that the public protector has dived and ducked and now says she is investigating only about R3.1 billion. We have given the investigators the information we have that shows that is it R26 billion that was stolen. The public protector is protecting white capital and her report on the matter is likely to be a white wash. But we won’t stop till the R26 billion is returned.