 Skosana’s analysis that goes by the title “Guilty by association-pronouncing on the BLF statement” has a serious framework problem that effectively cuts out any space for deepening the analysis. His framework of reference is limited by sweeping unscientific conclusions evidently informed by his opportunism that glosses over who our friends and our enemies are. Here Mao Zedong’s wisdom is instructive: “Who are our enemies? Who are our friends? This is a question of the first importance for the revolution. The basic reason why all previous revolutionary struggles in China achieved so little was their failure to unite with real friends in order to attack real enemies. A revolutionary party is the guide of the masses, and no revolution ever succeeds when the revolutionary party leads them astray. To ensure that we will definitely achieve success in our revolution and will not lead the masses astray, we must pay attention to uniting with our real friends in order to attack our real enemies. To distinguish real friends from real enemies, we must make a general analysis of the economic status of the various classes in … society and of their respective attitudes towards the revolution.” Mao Zedong Analysis of the Classes in Chinese Society” (March 1926), Selected Works, Vol. I, p. 13. The ANC is not the enemy, it is only the body guard of the real enemy.  So defeating the ANC does not amount to defeating the real enemy. Our struggle is not primarily against the ANC or its leader. Also a change of leaders and regimes of the ANC will not change the guardian status of the ANC. Our real enemy is white settler capital and its global wing, western imperialism, who we must defeat to get our land and African sense of being returned. Having concluded that BLF’s position is ideologically correct in that “all black people under attack by white power must be protected as a matter of principle, regime change by imperial forces should be exposed and resisted, the fight for our total liberation must be taken to whites all the time” – he  suggests that the tactic by BLF calling for #HandsOffZumaEconomicLiberationNow is wrong. But Skosana needs to be told that BLFs tactics are necessarily informed by its ideological perspective. Both Mao and Lenin teach us that tactics must be driven by political theory which in turn informs the ideological perspective. To this end the constituent parts of BLFs ideological perspective (as pointed out by Skosana) must necessarily be implemented via the medium of BC. This, by the way, is exactly what the BLF is doing – it’s doing BC in elaborating the path towards the institutional destruction of white supremacy. On understanding the political workings of BLF at junctures like this, here’s some further insight from V.I. Lenin “On the Significance of Militant Materialism”: “One of the biggest and most dangerous mistakes made by Communists (as generally by revolutionaries who have successfully accomplished the beginning of a great revolution) is the idea that a revolution can be made by revolutionaries alone. On the contrary, to be successful, all serious revolutionary work requires that the idea that revolutionaries are capable of playing the part only of the vanguard of the truly virile and advanced class must be understood and translated into action. A vanguard performs its task as vanguard only when it is able to avoid being isolated from the mass of the people it leads and is able really to lead the whole mass forward. Without an alliance with non-Communists in the most diverse spheres of activity there can be no question of any successful communist construction.” Skosana needs here to treat all questions analytically regarding BLFs stance in the context of the current historical situation, instead of rushing to ultimately unscientifically negate everything. BLF has been at pains to point out that conducting a concrete analysis of the concrete conditions is indispensable to arriving at practical solutions to practical problems. Skosana has demonstrated in his critique of the BLF stance under reply, his aversion to adopting a truly analytical approach. Furthermore he clearly refuses to go deeply into the complex questions that present themselves here and to this end to commit himself to study and enquire into these questions repeatedly but prefers instead to draw simple opportunistic conclusions. So since Skosana has a problem with BLF’s stance, the questions to him are: where exactly do you stand regarding Brazil? Do u want SA to go the Brazil way? How do you respond to the pro BRICS position adopted by Zuma in the context of the anti imperialist struggle? What do you say about the attack on Zuma by white capital (which you don’t deny)?