By BO Staff Writer   Julius Malema made the following declaration about Zimbabwe during his visit to London late last year:   “We are not going to do what the Zimbabweans have done; of drawing the blood of innocent people. There’s nothing wrong with Mugabe’s policy on land, but there’s everything wrong with the method used to obtain the land. We cannot have people killed, injured because you want your land back.”   Malema said this soon after meeting with Robin Renwick, regime change agent and lead representative of British imperialism, who has been labouring to topple President Mugabe for taking land from whites and giving it to blacks. In London Malema even went as far as depicting President Mugabe as an opportunist.   After the EFF agenda was exposed by Black Opinion and it has become clear that the London agenda is anti black for colonial reconquest as exemplified by, inter alia, Malema’s direct call to work with representatives of white capital such as Johann Rupert and the Democratic Alliance – Malema is now selling “radical” rethoric to his base to keep it hopeful. He has been flip flopping hectically in the past few days. Let’s start with what the EFF said on the Zimbabwean independence day:   “The EFF is inspired by the Zimbabweans and their historical lesson shall inform how we engage in our own struggle to return the land to its rightful owners for the total emancipation of our people.”   This statement is a desperate attempt to cover lost ground after evidently sustained silence on the land question and openly calling for a united front with white capital against President Zuma. How does praising the Zimbabawean land revolution square up with the denunciation made in London? What is the meaning of “(w)e are not going to do what the Zimbabweans have done”. Malema has a message for each occasion depending on his audience. Well, that was not the only flip flopping, check this:           Malema is a politician who tells whoever is listening what he believes they want to hear. When he is with whites, he speaks white – he speaks like a house negro. But he knows blacks follow him because of his image as a revolutionary. So when in front of poor hungry blacks, he sells them dreams. Essentially, Julius Malema is a salesman and his ideology is money.   Sources   See the following links:           No related posts.