by BO staff writer date: 13 April 2016 The rapid developments around the regime change activities that have cemented the alliance between the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), the Democratic Alliance (DA),  Zwelinzima Vavi and Johann Rupert have been systematically developed over the last six months. Key to these developments is the London tour by the EFF.  The most important meeting that occurred in London was under the colonial secret norms called the Chatham House Rule. No one says who said what. It’s an old gentlemen’s agreement sworn in secretary – a mafia like oath. Almost six months after the meeting, the secret is kept safe by both sides to the meeting. Historically the empires of the US and the United Kingdom although different in character – the UKs being expansionist based in terms of territory while the US focused more on pure economic power – both projects had their roots in the inter WW1 & 2 periods of liberalism that produced the relevant institutions of power through which the necessary influence on people and forms of governance internationally could be leveraged. From the works of the liberal thinkers of influence at that time, normative guidelines for understanding global politics as it presents currently can be gleaned. Some of the thinkers that shaped public and international opinion were Zimmerman, Curtis, Smuts and the Round Table and to this end “empire” was the core topic for debate. The debate was kept in the elitist class involving lawyers, politicians, journalists and business persons etcetera who used their disciplines to spread this brand of liberalism. Their discourse was oriented largely around Oxford (where it had the most impact on imperial policy) – aimed at influencing public opinion in London. Oxford was effectively the “feeder school” for “imperial administration” and to shape debate within the appropriate intellectual circles. To this end Smuts (linked to SA) spread “imperial wisdom” to select audiences in London so as to further the agenda of imperial affairs. In the same breath we had Kagan, Furguson and Ignatief who elaborated a similar program within the US via inter alia the expansion of the media space. They consequently reached a larger audience than their UK predecessors. In this regard they used Harvard and Yale and in the process attacked the intellectual left. The US contingent thus had huge influence on public and foreign policy. In relation to the UK contingent and more specifically the Round Table forum it must be pointed out that it was formed by Oxford graduates who had previously worked with Lord Milner in South Africa and who subsequently formed a “network of semi secret organizations” which were funded by Cecil John Rhodes for the purpose of furthering imperial policy. The Round Table is an example in point that indicates what the intellectual power of it’s founders meant in the early twentieth century. It was actually the first International Relations think-tank and it serves instructive to point out that it is the thinkers associated with the Round Table that after the war went on to form the ROYAL INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS (the institution that hosted EFF President Julius Malema) and were instrumental in creating the COUNCIL OF FOREIGN RELATIONS. It is also important to note that Zimmerman was involved in the Round Table and Smuts who was a member of the IMPERIAL WAR COUNCIL produced a pamphlet that convinced Woodrow Wilson to support the idea of the LEAGUE OF NATIONS. So Julius Malema is currently being hosted by “Chatham House The Royal Institute of International Affairs” in furtherance of its imperialist “Africa Programme”. This very institution was created by Oxford graduates like Zimmerman who furthered the imperial agenda in South Africa and Africa in general with the help of Cecil John Rhodes. The imperialist interests of this institution are being further consolidated via hand picked compradoreial leaders like Julius Malema.  