By BO Staff Writer Lastnight, the Black First Land First (BLF) movement hosted a lecture under the theme – Peace amongst blacks as part of BLF’s National Strategic Planning meeting (NSP) in Durban. The lecture was delivered by BLF National Convenor, Andile Mngxitama, with interesting questions and inputs from the audience. Mngxitama explained the source and inspiration of the talk in two ways. The first inspiration was the experiences of the BLF student movement in the University of Kwazulu Natal Howard College (BLF-SM). Whilst running for SRC elections recently, the student movement received a lot of antagonism from other political party student movements. Their posters were torn, tshirts burnt and sometimes they were even subjected to physical threats. The response of the student movement was “peace amongst blacks”. They refused to be roped into a situation of fighting other black people for seats. “These BLF-SM comrades refused to be roped into macho-patriarchal practises of violence. They resisted this and opted to engage ideologically,” said Mngxitama. #BLFNSP: How do we make sure that peace amongst blacks becomes a revolutionary principle? pic.twitter.com/HCoGuBkCKg — BLACK 1ST LAND 1ST (@Black1stLand1st) December 14, 2016  The second inspiration for the talk was Robert Sobukwe’s conception of ‘peace amongst Africans, war on the enemy’. Mngxitama took time explaining this idea using the black consciousness philosophy. The basis of Mngxitama’s argument was a political one – given the ways in which white supremacy has damaged (social, gender, sexual, political, class) relations between Black people, how do we make sure that our rage is redirected from between us to the real enemy – white people? Mngxitama also took the argument to the political arena making examples of how political parties like the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) have invested energy into (physically) fighting other black people, like Zuma and pastors, but never have the same zeal in fighting white people directly. Interesting questions about what peace means for black people in an antiblack, violent world, came up from the audience. A consensus was reached that the only way to have peace amongst blacks is through a process of understanding black consciousness and getting justice via taking back the land.