Media Statement Black First Land First (BLF) is once again appalled, but not surprised, at the leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) calling for the democratically elected President of Zimbabwe, Comrade Robert Mugabe, to step down. Malema has been brazen in his service to British imperialism since the EFF leadership held a secret meeting with the representatives of the British crown in October 2015 at Chatham House in London. The call to support regime change in Zimbabwe in service of imperialism and colonialism was given by the expert in regime change and trusted servant of British imperialism, Lord Robin Renwick.  Calling for President Mugabe to step down is merely carrying out the desires of Robin Renwick. Mugabe is the only revolutionary leader who has successfully returned the land of his people. British colonialists and imperialists are trying hard to reverse the gains of the Zimbabwean chimurenga. These evil forces have found a willing agent in Malema. It must be remembered that it is Malema’s party which has given power to whites in the metropolitan cities. This was yet again another desire by British imperialism. After the failed attempt to legitimize the racist settler colonial party, the Democratic Alliance  (DA), with Dr Mamphele Ramphele, imperialism turned to the EFF and Malema delivered. Today the most critical metros are under the DA, thanks to Malema. It was during a supposed memorial service of the late comrade Fidel Castro that this call for Zimbabwe’s regime change in service of imperialism was made, thus spitting in the face of the memory of the most important anti-imperialist of our time – Castro. Mugabe, like Castro, has defied imperialism successfully. Cuba and Zimbabwe are under permanent sanctions and their economies are under imperialist assault 350 days of the year. Zimbabwe needs solidarity against imperialism, not calls for regime change to colonize that brave nation again. BLF rejects with absolute contempt the regime change calls by Malema and his EFF. We call upon Malema to abandon imperialism and return to the oath of revolution starting with rejecting the neo-colonial anti-black coalition with the DA. BLF says hands off President Mugabe! Issued by the National Coordinating Committee, Black First Land First 6 December 2016 Contact details Black First Land First Email:blackfirstlandfirst@gmail.com
Facebook: Black First Land First | Twitter: @black1stland1st
Website: www.blf.org.za Thandiswa Yaphi
(Deputy National Coordinator)
Cell: +27 63 107 3163
Mail: thandiyaphi@gmail.com Zanele Lwana
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 486 9087
Mail: zanelelwana@gmail.com Lindsay Maasdorp
(National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 915 2957
Mail: lgmaasdorp@hotmail.c­om