By BO Staff Writer Black First Land First (BLF) held its first National Strategic Planning meeting (NSP) in Durban from 12 to 16 December 2016. During the meeting the movement noted “how Hlaudi Motsoeneng was under attack by agents of white supremacy.” The movement said that “Hlaudi was not under attack because of corruption or media freedom issues. If that was true, then journalists working for white owned media would be out protesting every day.” BLF furthermore said that  “[i]t’s a known factor that censorship is rife in the newsroom in SA.” BLF further said that it “believes that Hlaudi is under attack because he is a transformation activist and a pro-black manager”.  BLF noted “that the claims of corruption are made by journalists who have lost their jobs, some have their dismissal confirmed by courts. We ask why didn’t they raise the issues of corruption at the time they are alleged to have happened. Why wait until you have lost your jobs to cry “corruption”. This is an opportunistic use of claims of fighting corruption and censorship to drive an anti-transformation agenda”.  BLF was non equivocal on why it thinks Hlaudi is under attack. To this end it said that “Hlaudi is under attack because of his attempt to decolonize the SABC. He is hated because of the 90% local content. Hlaudi is hated because he has interfered with the white monopoly over production and content at the SABC. Hlaudi is hated because he wants radical transformation.” The movement has vowed to stand by and support Hlaudi Motsoeneng because he is a victim of racism and colonialism. BLF also noted that many progressive black managers where under attack by agents of white power. These managers include Brian Molefe (Eskom), Tom Moyane (SARS) and Dudu Myeni (SAA).  BLF pointed out that “[t]he agenda of white capital with the assistance of the Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan is to capture strategic state institutions and surrender them to white capital and the opposition parties specifically the DA.” BLF further noted that “the next target is the acting police commissioner Kgomotso Phahlane”. The movement indicated that it is aware that “the DA has identified Robert McBride as an acceptable replacement of Riah Phiyega. This racist party believes under McBride its agenda of prosecuting blacks to protect white supremacy would be better pursued”. The movement called for the protection of Phahlane from such evil forces as the foreign agent, Paul O’Sullivan, who is the hit man for racism and colonialism. BLF has called on the above progressive black managers to emulate Hlaudi. In this regard the call is to press on with the task of decolonization, making sure that the benefits go directly to the masses of our people instead of white capital and a black elite.