By BO Staff Writer The Black First Land First movement says it will picket overnight on Friday at presidential offices, the Union Buildings in Pretoria, to get the president to establish a Judicial Commission of Inquiry on the Ruperts, Guptas and Banks. The black consciousness movement says the overnight picket will be followed by a march on Saturday. In a press conference on Tuesday announcing the march, BLF National Convenor, Andile Mngxitama, said the movement was tired of only one family bearing the brunt for the country’s socio-economic problems. He said the root of all corruption in South Africa was land theft and that this country was founded on corruption since 1652 – a narrative most white media outlets choose to ignore. He therefore went on to explain that it was inaccurate historicaaly to claim the Zuma, or even the Guptas, were the most corrupt family in the country. “[E]ach time we point to white corruption, the white owned media hides behind the Gupta family. Similarly each time we ask the Minister of Finance, Mr Pravin Gordhan, to deal with white monopoly capital corruption he hides behind the Guptas and claims that some are captured by them,” said Mngxitama. In the press briefing, Mngxitama emphasised that if the Guptas are ‘corrupt’ then they should be investigated – but to date, no actual charges have laid against them. The banks shutdown Oakbay accounts with only allegations of fraud – nothing has been proven, while many white companies who have many pending cases against them for fraud and financial outflows, are still with open bank accounts. Mngxitama further listed a few instances of white corruption which has been ignored by the media, opposition parties and so-called ‘civil society’ groups. These included billions stolen by the construction cartel during the 2010 FIFA world cup, R26 billion stolen from the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) by, amongst others, the Stellenbosch Mafia king, Johann Rupert, the looting of South African Airways (SAA) by the likes of Coleman Andrews and his consulting firm Bain & Company, the Oppenheimer family operating a private airport inside a national key point and demanding that it be given rights to upgrade into an international private airport. The movement is calling for the President to establish a judicial commission of inquiry to investigate state capture by white capital and their influence on the replacement of Des van Rooyen with Pravin Gordhan as finance minister – a case which the movement brought before the previous public protector, Thuli Madonsela. They say the president must use his powers to look into the collusion of banks in the closure of the Oakbay bank accounts and any corrupt activities pertaining to illicit movement of money by Oakbay. They are also calling for closer scrutiny into bank practices and their racist differential treatment of clients – see FNB overcharging black customers. The message of the movement is clear, the banks and white capital (Ruperts and Oppenheimers etc.) cannot be a law unto themselves. The president must use his power to put a stop to their unending looting and arrogant capture of the state. Details of the march are as follows: Date: 10 December 2016
Time: 10h00
Venue: Union Buildings Lawns 