Featured Image: Brazilian president, Dilma Rousseff faces suspension from office in less than a week.  Photo: Andressa Anholete/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images By João Pedro Stedile “They may control laws and manipulate legislative decisions, but they can’t generate the riches of the country. Those who produce the riches are the workers, and we are the ones that can set the course of the country” – MST On May 10 or 11, the Senate will temporarily remove President Dilma from her seat. And, in the following 48 hours, she will have to find refuge in the Alvorada Palace or the Torto Farm. This is despite the fact that in the Chamber of Deputies nobody is able to provide hard evidence that proves that the President has committed any crime at all. The accusation of fiscal peddling —made by a deranged lawyer— is so absurd that most of the very same Chamber members that voted for it are in turn charged with corruption and may be removed by the Supreme Federal court. That means that those who decided on it are criminals. And it’s the same scenario in the Senate. The rapporteur of the process, Senator Anastasia, of the Brazilian Social Democratic Party, used peddling as an administrative process to transfer thousands of millions of reais during his term as governor of Minas Gerais. The process is so clearly absurd and political that the accusers are actually the ones guilty of the crimes. But, in the end, the true goal of the bourgeoisie is to use those lumpen-Parliamentarians to give way to the recomposition of neoliberalism in Brazil. They need to recover their profit rates and continue to accumulate rents and riches. And, for that, they need three things: It’s not a coincidence that Aluísio Nunes has travelled to Washington, US, to report to the boss, while the coup is being consummated, and Senator José Serra (PSDB) is announced for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What to do in the face of so much wickedness in the elites? On the streets, and among the society in general, there is a clear sentiment that what happened with the impeachment vote was a legislative-judicial coup like the ones perpetrated in Paraguay or in Honduras, to give way to an economic model that oppresses people. Dilma’s government made many mistakes, many of them similar to the traditional policies of the PSDB in their state governments. So there weren’t enough reasons to destitute her on that basis. The goal is to exploit workers. More than 350 manifestos and signings in support of her government were made by different sectors of society condemning the coup: artists, religious leaders, intellectuals, students. All against the coup! None of the figures that expresses and represents the people supports the coup. The working class doesn’t have another solution but to strengthen organization and keep expanding the mass mobilizations to denounce and condemn the coupists, whether they are Parliamentarians, businessmen or members of the judicial power. To expand the denounces and mobilizations against the O Globo media network, the true political leader of that coup. Besides, to keep defending the workers’ and social rights, union centrals convened a national stoppage on May 10. This will be a warning for coupists: the struggle is active. And it will warn Senators that they might control laws but they can’t produce the riches of the country. We the workers are the ones that produce riches,and we can set the course of the country. If mobilizations keep growing in the next days, then we might be able to, after the coup, make unviable and sweep away the neoliberal program that Temer and Cunha intend to install, promote consciousness so that there are at least 28 senators willing to stop the coup in the final voting and return the power to the 54 million Brazilians that voted for President Dilma Rousseff. And, if the coup is consolidating, we might make pressure again so that there’s a plebiscite to return to the people the right to decide on political routes, so that there can be a political reform in the country —through a Constituent assembly— and rebuild a political system in which the people can truly exercise their power as it is in the Constitution. If not, we will sustain a long period of intense fights, of economic, political, social and environmental crisis. Our lumpen-bourgeoisie gets away with replacing governments. But they are not the ones that produce things nor organize social life. The future depends on how the people and the working class will mobilize. Stedile is a leading radical intellectual in Brazil associated with the militant Landless People’s Movement the Movemento Sem-Terra (MST). first published in Brazil De Fato