Featured image: The BLF’s Black Agenda Launch conference called for an urgent anti-imperialism summit to happen before the year ends. BO Staff Writer The BLF conference held in Soweto over the weekend called for an urgent anti-imperialism summit. The conference noted that the BRICS countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa), were targeted for destabilisation and regime change to sabotage the BRICS process. More specifically the plan is to destabilise the establishment of a development bank which shall free these countries from the slavery of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund which are owned and controlled by the West. Brazil and South Africa are seen by the Western imperialist forces as the weak link in the BRICS chain. The strategy of imperialism is to get rid of presidents who support the BRICS process. Imperialism works with internal opposition parties to effect regime change. In Brazil they have successfully removed the president using “anti corruption” as a the tactic to deceive the people. The truth is that those who claim the president of Brazil is corrupt are known to be the most corrupt. The same strategy is being used in South Africa. Imperialism, using the opposition parties such as the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the Democratic Alliance (DA), with the support of white monopoly capital under the leadership of Johann Rupert, have been calling for President Jacob Zuma to resign and for the wealthy Gupta family to leave the country. The conference also noted that the South African media was captured by white capital and therefore supports any one who is part of the imperialist regime change agenda. The conference has called for an anti-imperialism summit under the theme “Stop Imperialism – Take Back The Land”.
The conference noted the evil strategy of imperialism to shift focus from white capital as the main enemy of black liberation, they have now contrived the lie that Zuma and the Guptas are the main problem in South Africa. The opposition parties directed from London and supported by the media have been pushing this lie aggressively. The anti-imperialism conference is to be held before the end of 2016.