By BO Editorial Team CHAPTER 20 of the BLACK AGENDA on Sankarist People’s Local Government Manifesto suggests a dynamic fully responsive state form at local government level and by extension nationally. This is particularly instructive in the context of the upcoming Local Government Elections. Please send your questions, queries, comments, feedback, etc. to the following email address: editor@blackopinion.co.za A proposal to the people! This Manifesto is drafted and offered for discussion and adoption by all progressive and servant leadership of the local government for 2016.  This Manifesto does not belong to any political party, or any specific organisation or movement. It is a Manifesto inspired by the commitment to serve the people displayed by Thomas Sankara and is proposed in memory of Andries Tatane who died fighting for water and for a local government that put the people first! This Manifesto contains the values of a Sankarist Local Government that puts people first and forces councillors to be accountable to the people and serve with dedication, sacrifice and commitment. Also the Manifesto has proposals for securing the democratic choices of the people for local councillors. The people, not the political party, must choose their own representatives. The local government councillor is first and foremost the servant of the people who elected them. They must listen to the people not the political party bosses. For the last 20 years, we have experienced promises and lies. We have been disappointed! Our townships remain places of poverty, lack of housing, no jobs, bad healthcare and terrible schooling. We watch our children destroyed via boredom. We watch hopelessly as their dreams are squashed and they surrender to drugs, alcohol and violence. Twenty-two years after democracy the political dispensation has delivered neither freedom, services nor an accountable system of governance. It is these structural failures which have led to the brutal murder of Comrade Andries Tatane and many after him during service delivery protests. In memory of Andries Tatane, a brave committed son of the soil, we need to fight for a new and different country and local government. No more shall those we elect enrich themselves at our expense and no more shall they be accountable to their political parties and not their people. Enough is enough. Now those we elect must serve us. All Councillors must be servants: Irrespective of political affiliation. All candidates must commit and subject themselves to this Manifesto. Candidates must: These are the ideals of a new Local Government that puts people first!