By BO Staff Writer Yesterday, the Pretoria High Court struck off the roll an urgent application brought against the Black First Land First (BLF) movement by the landlord of the Public Protector. The urgent application sought to interdict the ongoing 24 hour picket outside the offices of the Public Protector by BLF members. The High Court dismissed the matter saying there was no urgency. Furthermore, Judge Deidericks had many harsh words regarding how the Office of the Public Protector had, in particular, handled the BLF matter. The Judge vindicated the BLF call that corruption around the R26 billion is an important matter which needs urgent and serious attention. BLF believes that the reason why a court interdict was sought against it was part of Madonsela’s attempt to protect the Johann Rupert family. BLF demands that the Public Protector stops her selective and biased investigations. The organization has been calling on the Public Protector to include its complaint of white state capture by Johann Rupert and eight others in the investigation regarding state capture by the Gupta family lodged by the Democratic Alliance (DA). BLF said yesterday that the attempt by Advocate Madonsela to undermine its fundamental right to protest through using the court is yet again another clear indication of how far she would go in protecting white capital. The organisation asked, “what is the Public Protector’s Office doing on a white owned private property?”. The organization instructively pointed out that the Head Quarters of the Public Protector was in the same gated enclave with major banks. BLF said that the High Court’s decision, denying the application to interdict the BLF from picketing at the Public Protector’s Office, shows exactly how irrational the Public Protector has become in her desperate efforts to rush a half baked report of state capture. The organisation has repeatedly said that Advocate Madonsela is in a hurry to give the DA one last political gift before she leaves Office. Sources have said that the DA shall in turn thank Madonsela by making her its 2019 presidential candidate.  BLF vowed to continue its picket and has notified the Tshwane Metropolitan Police about its march this coming Friday, 14 October 2016, to the Public Protector’s Office.