By Tebogo Brown&#8220;Death is sweet when liberty is gone!&#8221; This phrase reverberates in the heads of all Syrian citizens. They prefer death to a neo-colonial state offered by the American government.There is a war going on in Syria and the world seems not to be aware. What is it that is happening in that part of the world? And why are we being denied the right to know the truth? Let me put readers up to speed about the goings on in Syria.The sitting President of Syria, Bashar Al Assad is refusing to bow down to the Western power structure and since 2009 the plan to get rid of him has taken too many forms and the most recent one being the worst of them all. In 2009 Assad refused to sign America&#8217;s Qatari plan to transport natural gas from Qatar to the EU via Syria. In his eye opening article headlined &#8220;Syria: Another Pipeline War , Robert F Kennedy Jr. informs the world that, &#8220;The $10 billion, 1,500km pipeline running through Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Syria and Turkey would have linked Qatar directly to European energy markets via distribution terminals in Turkey The Qatar/Turkey pipeline would have given the Sunni Kingdoms of the Persian Gulf decisive domination of world natural gas markets and strengthened Qatar, America s closest ally in the Arab world. In 2009, Assad announced that he would refuse to sign an agreement to allow the pipeline to run through Syria to protect the interests of our Russian ally.&#8221;Assad enraged the Gulf s Sunni monarchs further by endorsing a Russian approved Islamic pipeline running from Iran s side of the gas field through Syria and to the ports of Lebanon. The Islamic pipeline would make Shia Iran instead of Sunni Qatar, the principal supplier to the European energy market and dramatically increase Tehran s influence in the Mid-East and the world. Assad&#8217;s refusal to cooperate with the Americans threw him in the hands of that invisible powerful international cartel of power that assassinates and overthrows presidents who refuse to cooperate and Assad became Washington&#8217;s number 1 enemy.Instead of sending its troops to Syria like they normally do, America created an internal army known as &#8220;Islamic extremists&#8221; ISIS to get rid of Assad. And later they used the very same ISIS as a pretext to enter Syria. That is how hell broke loose in Syria.In a war that is now taking place in Syria, a war sponsored by the US and in a population of just 17 million people, thousands have already lost their lives, 5 million forced to leave their country and the great history and civilisations are destroyed but because of the tremendous determination of its people. Through the President of Syria, the heroic Syrian army and Syria&#8217;s good friends, Russia and Iran, the country is still resisting to fall prey to Western imperialism.The Syrian army, President Assad, Russia and Iran should stand their ground and never back down and surrender to the Americans, for by doing so they will be handing over the country to America and Syria will be under the sphere of influence of the US which is unacceptable to the Syrian people.The Syrian people, common people of Syrian are revolutionaries and they understand that &#8220;A true revolutionary should go all the way! If he doesn t dare to, he should better stay where he is and go nowhere at all. Victory is in sight to the revolutionary people of Syria.