By BO Staff Writer The embattled Minister of Finance, Pravin Gordhan, is said to have called out to Johann Rupert to come to his aid. Gordhan is facing multiple challenges, in the main possible criminal prosecutions for 2 counts of fraud allegedly committed on 18 October 2010 and 1 April 2014 respectively. The HAWKS are set to officially charge him on the 2nd of November 2016 when he is due to appear in court. As if that is not enough, the black consciousness radical organization, Black First Land First (BLF), has given Gordhan 48 hours to respond to a series of questions or face a high court application. The BLF 48 hours notice deadline ends late afternoon on Friday, 21 October 2016. Gordhan was banking on the now shelved “state capture” report by the former Public Protector, Adv Thuli Mandosela, being released on Friday 14 October 2016. The  shelving of the report which many believe was designed as a political weapon to ward off the legal problems facing the Minister of Finance has put the pro-white capital faction of Pravin Gordhan, Trevor Manuel and Thuli Mandosela into a panic. Their first response, in a bid to cover lost ground, was the hurried High Court application (Gauteng Provincial Division, Case Number 80978/16) lodged by Gordhan against the Gupta family last Friday. The application has been discredited as baseless and with no prospects of success. It was clearly a political maneuver aimed at moving pressure away from Pravin Gordhan after their plan A was neutralized by the urgent application brought by Minister Des van Rooyen which sought to interdict the previous Public Protector from releasing the so called “State Capture” report. To this end the decision of the Des Van Rooyen High Court application resulted in the aforesaid report not being released pending the final determination by the Court. Gordhan still needs something big to divert the attention from himself as a fraudster in the perception of the public. Sources have said that he has now appealed to Johann Rupert to use his influence in the media so as to generate a media scandal against the family of President Zuma. The Johann Rupert controlled media has decided to hatch a story about some loans which are to be linked to one of the First Ladies, Mrs Bongi Ngema-Zuma. The story is meant to hit the front pages in the next few days. Gordhan is said to be worried that the media campaign to prop him up is not having the desired effect. What remains to be seen is whether the scandal manufactured against Bongi Ngema-Zuma shall be enough to rescue Gordhan from his problems with the law. The HAWKS are said to have a water tight case against him.