By Zanele Lwana On Tuesday, the National Prosecuting Authority’s (NPA) National Director of Public Prosecutions, Shaun Abrahams announced that the NPA has summoned to court, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, and others, for fraud. Gordhan is set to appear on the 2 November. The Black First Land First (BLF) movement welcomes this decision by the NPA and further demands that Gordhan resigns from his post in order to allow the process of prosecution to occur in peace. The summons have been issued for Gordhan, former Sars commissioner Oupa Magashula and former deputy Sars Commissioner Ivan Pillay. In a press briefing, Abrahams mentioned that the charge of fraud relates to the pay-out made by Sars to Pillay when he took early retirement. As we had seen when Gordhan was summoned by the HAWKS last month, the rand has already been held hostage and will continue being used as a key weapon to prevent Gordhan from being legally accountable. To prevent the use of the rand and ratings agencies in enforcing economic terrorism against the country, BLF implores the Minister to do the honourable thing and step down from his position given the charges he faces. The minister needs time to face the court process. As BLF has stated before, Gordhan should not be allowed to escape his day in court, given the fact that he is as corrupt as those he accuses of corruption. Pravin Gordhan is compromised by his business association with bankers who bullied the ANC leaders to appoint him as Minister of Finance last December. Gordhan owns shares in many of the companies owned by white capitalists who insisted he be made finance minister, and who BLF has opened a case of “state capture” by white capital against. Abrahams finished of his press briefing by sternly saying, “the days of disrespecting the decisions of the National Prosecuting authority are over… The days of non-accountability and not holding senior government officials accountable are over.” We hope Pravin Gordhan, the Finance Minister of White Monopoly Capital, does the honourable thing and steps down. We also hope that President Jacob Zuma will then appoint a finance minister who has the interests of the black majority at heart, and not those of white capital. ISSUED BY THE NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF THE BLACK FIRST LAND FIRST MOVEMENT 11 October 2016 Contact Details  Black First Land First Mail: blackfirstlandfirst@­gmail.com  Zanele Lwana
(Deputy National Convenor
& National Spokesperson)
Cell: +27 79 486 9087 Mail: zanelelwana@gmail.com